=begin man

=encoding utf8

=end man

=head1 NAME

mmdbresolve - Read IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and print their IP geolocation information.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mmdbresolve>
S<B<-f E<lt>dbfileE<gt>>>
S<[ B<-f E<lt>dbfileE<gt>> ]>
I<...>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mmdbresolve> reads IPv4 and IPv6 addresses on stdin and prints their IP geolocation information
on stdout. Each input line must contain exactly one address. Output is in INI format, with a section
delimiter named after the query address followed by a set of "key: value" pairs. A comment
beginning with "# End" is appended to each section.

At startup an "[init]" section is printed that shows the status of each datbase and of mmdbresolve
itself.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -f

Path to a MaxMind Database file. Multiple databases may be specified.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To resolve a single address:

    echo 4.4.4.4 | mmdbresolve -f /usr/share/GeoIP/GeoLite2-City.mmdb

  Example output:
[init]
db.0.path: /usr/share/GeoIP/GeoLite2-City.mmdb
db.0.status: OK
mmdbresolve.status: true
# End init
[4.4.4.4]
# GeoLite2-City
country.iso_code: US
country.names.en: United States
location.latitude: 37.751000
location.longitude: -97.822000
# End 4.4.4.4

=head1 SEE ALSO

wireshark(1), tshark(1)

=head1 NOTES

B<mmdbresolve> is part of the B<Wireshark> distribution. The latest version
of B<Wireshark> can be found at L<https://www.wireshark.org>.

HTML versions of the Wireshark project man pages are available at:
L<https://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages>.

=head1 AUTHORS

  Original Author
  ---------------
  Gerald Combs            <gerald[AT]wireshark.org>
