
=head1 NAME

randpktdump - Provide an interface to generate random captures using randpkt

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<randpktdump>
S<[ B<--help> ]>
S<[ B<--version> ]>
S<[ B<--extcap-interfaces> ]>
S<[ B<--extcap-dlts> ]>
S<[ B<--extcap-interface>=E<lt>interfaceE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<--extcap-config> ]>
S<[ B<--capture> ]>
S<[ B<--fifo>=E<lt>path to file or pipeE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<--maxbytes>=E<lt>bytesE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<--random-type>=E<lt>true|falseE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<--all-random>=E<lt>true|falseE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<--type>=E<lt>packet typeE<gt> ]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<randpktdump> is a extcap tool that provides access to the random
packet generator (randpkt). It is mainly used for testing and
educational purpose.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --help

Print program arguments.

=item --version

Print program version.

=item --extcap-interfaces

List available interfaces.

=item --extcap-interface=E<lt>interfaceE<gt>

Use specified interfaces.

=item --extcap-dlts

List DLTs of specified interface.

=item --extcap-config

List configuration options of specified interface.

=item --capture

Start capturing from specified interface save saved it in place specified by --fifo.

=item --fifo=E<lt>path to file or pipeE<gt>

Save captured packet to file or send it through pipe.

=item --maxbytes=E<lt>bytesE<gt>

Set the max number of bytes per packet.

=item --random-type

Choose a random packet type for all packets if set to true.

=item --all-random

Choose a different random packet type for each packet if set to true.

=item --type=E<lt>packet typeE<gt>

Use the selected packet type. To list all the available packet type, run randpktdump --help.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To see program arguments:

    randpktdump --help

To see program version:

    randpktdump --version

To see interfaces:

    randpktdump --extcap-interfaces

  Example output:
    interface {value=randpkt}{display=Random packet generator}

To see interface DLTs:

    randpktdump --extcap-interface=randpkt --extcap-dlts

  Example output:
    dlt {number=1}{name=randpkt}{display=Ethernet}

To see interface configuration options:

    randpktdump --extcap-interface=randpkt --extcap-config

  Example output:
    arg {number=0}{call=--maxbytes}{display=Max bytes in a packet}{type=unsigned}{range=1,5000}{default=5000}{tooltip=The max number of bytes in a packet}
    arg {number=1}{call=--count}{display=Number of packets}{type=long}{default=1000}{tooltip=Number of packets to generate (-1 for infinite)}
    arg {number=2}{call=--random-type}{display=Random type}{type=boolean}{default=false}{tooltip=The packets type is randomly choosen}
    arg {number=3}{call=--all-random}{display=All random packets}{type=boolean}{default=false}{tooltip=Packet type for each packet is randomly choosen}
    arg {number=4}{call=--type}{display=Type of packet}{type=selector}{tooltip=Type of packet to generate}
    value {arg=4}{value=arp}{display=Address Resolution Protocol}
    [...]
    value {arg=4}{value=usb-linux}{display=Universal Serial Bus with Linux specific header}

To capture:

    randpktdump --extcap-interface=randpkt --fifo=/tmp/randpkt.pcapng --capture

NOTE: To stop capturing CTRL+C/kill/terminate application.

=head1 SEE ALSO

wireshark(1), tshark(1), dumpcap(1), extcap(4), randpkt(1)

=head1 NOTES

B<randpktdump> is part of the B<Wireshark> distribution.  The latest version
of B<Wireshark> can be found at L<https://www.wireshark.org>.

HTML versions of the Wireshark project man pages are available at:
L<https://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages>.

=head1 AUTHORS

  Original Author
  ---------------
  Dario Lombardo             <lomato[AT]gmail.com>
