
=head1 NAME

tshark - Dump and analyze network traffic

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tshark>
S<[ B<-a> E<lt>capture autostop conditionE<gt> ] ...>
S<[ B<-b> E<lt>capture ring buffer optionE<gt>] ...>
S<[ B<-B> E<lt>capture buffer sizeE<gt> ] >
S<[ B<-c> E<lt>capture packet countE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-C> E<lt>configuration profileE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-d> E<lt>layer typeE<gt>==E<lt>selectorE<gt>,E<lt>decode-as protocolE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-D> ]>
S<[ B<-e> E<lt>fieldE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-E> E<lt>field print optionE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-f> E<lt>capture filterE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-F> E<lt>file formatE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-h> ]>
S<[ B<-H> E<lt>input hosts fileE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-i> E<lt>capture interfaceE<gt>|- ]>
S<[ B<-I> ]>
S<[ B<-K> E<lt>keytabE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-l> ]>
S<[ B<-L> ]>
S<[ B<-n> ]>
S<[ B<-N> E<lt>name resolving flagsE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-o> E<lt>preference settingE<gt> ] ...>
S<[ B<-p> ]>
S<[ B<-q> ]>
S<[ B<-r> E<lt>infileE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-R> E<lt>read (display) filterE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-s> E<lt>capture snaplenE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-S> ]>
S<[ B<-t> ad|a|r|d|dd|e ]>
S<[ B<-T> pdml|psml|ps|text|fields ]>
S<[ B<-v> ]>
S<[ B<-V> ]>
S<[ B<-w> E<lt>outfileE<gt>|- ]>
S<[ B<-W> E<lt>file format optionE<gt>]>
S<[ B<-x> ]>
S<[ B<-X> E<lt>eXtension optionE<gt>]>
S<[ B<-y> E<lt>capture link typeE<gt> ]>
S<[ B<-z> E<lt>statisticsE<gt> ]>
S<[ E<lt>capture filterE<gt> ]>

B<tshark>
B<-G> [fields|fields2|fields3|protocols|values|decodes|defaultprefs|currentprefs]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<TShark> is a network protocol analyzer.  It lets you capture packet
data from a live network, or read packets from a previously saved
capture file, either printing a decoded form of those packets to the
standard output or writing the packets to a file.  B<TShark>'s native
capture file format is B<libpcap> format, which is also the format used
by B<tcpdump> and various other tools.

Without any options set, B<TShark> will work much like B<tcpdump>. It will
use the pcap library to capture traffic from the first available network
interface and displays a summary line on stdout for each received packet.

B<TShark> is able to detect, read and write the same capture files that
are supported by B<Wireshark>.
The input file doesn't need a specific filename extension; the file
format and an optional gzip compression will be automatically detected.
Near the beginning of the DESCRIPTION section of wireshark(1) or
L<http://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages/wireshark.html>
is a detailed description of the way B<Wireshark> handles this, which is
the same way B<Tshark> handles this.

Compressed file support uses (and therefore requires) the zlib library.
If the zlib library is not present, B<TShark> will compile, but will
be unable to read compressed files.

If the B<-w> option is not specified, B<TShark> writes to the standard
output the text of a decoded form of the packets it captures or reads.
If the B<-w> option is specified, B<TShark> writes to the file
specified by that option the raw data of the packets, along with the
packets' time stamps.

When writing a decoded form of packets, B<TShark> writes, by
default, a summary line containing the fields specified by the
preferences file (which are also the fields displayed in the packet list
pane in B<Wireshark>), although if it's writing packets as it captures
them, rather than writing packets from a saved capture file, it won't
show the "frame number" field.  If the B<-V> option is specified, it
writes instead a view of the details of the packet, showing all the
fields of all protocols in the packet.

If you want to write the decoded form of packets to a file, run
B<TShark> without the B<-w> option, and redirect its standard output to
the file (do I<not> use the B<-w> option).

When writing packets to a file, B<TShark>, by default, writes the
file in B<libpcap> format, and writes all of the packets it sees to the
output file.  The B<-F> option can be used to specify the format in which
to write the file. This list of available file formats is displayed by
the B<-F> flag without a value. However, you can't specify a file format
for a live capture.

Read filters in B<TShark>, which allow you to select which packets
are to be decoded or written to a file, are very powerful; more fields
are filterable in B<TShark> than in other protocol analyzers, and the
syntax you can use to create your filters is richer.  As B<TShark>
progresses, expect more and more protocol fields to be allowed in read
filters.

Packet capturing is performed with the pcap library.  The capture filter
syntax follows the rules of the pcap library.  This syntax is different
from the read filter syntax.  A read filter can also be specified when
capturing, and only packets that pass the read filter will be displayed
or saved to the output file; note, however, that capture filters are much
more efficient than read filters, and it may be more difficult for
B<TShark> to keep up with a busy network if a read filter is
specified for a live capture.

A capture or read filter can either be specified with the B<-f> or B<-R>
option, respectively, in which case the entire filter expression must be
specified as a single argument (which means that if it contains spaces,
it must be quoted), or can be specified with command-line arguments
after the option arguments, in which case all the arguments after the
filter arguments are treated as a filter expression.  Capture filters
are supported only when doing a live capture; read filters are supported
when doing a live capture and when reading a capture file, but require
TShark to do more work when filtering, so you might be more likely to
lose packets under heavy load if you're using a read filter.  If the
filter is specified with command-line arguments after the option
arguments, it's a capture filter if a capture is being done (i.e., if no
B<-r> option was specified) and a read filter if a capture file is being
read (i.e., if a B<-r> option was specified).

The B<-G> option is a special mode that simply causes B<Tshark>
to dump one of several types of internal glossaries and then exit.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -a  E<lt>capture autostop conditionE<gt>

Specify a criterion that specifies when B<TShark> is to stop writing
to a capture file.  The criterion is of the form I<test>B<:>I<value>,
where I<test> is one of:

B<duration>:I<value> Stop writing to a capture file after I<value> seconds
have elapsed.

B<filesize>:I<value> Stop writing to a capture file after it reaches a size of
I<value> kilobytes (where a kilobyte is 1024 bytes). If this option is used
together with the -b option, B<TShark> will stop writing to the current
capture file and switch to the next one if filesize is reached. When reading a
capture file, B<TShark> will stop reading the file after the number of bytes
read exceeds this number (the complete packet will be read, so more bytes than
this number may be read).

B<files>:I<value> Stop writing to capture files after I<value> number of files
were written.

=item -b  E<lt>capture ring buffer optionE<gt>

Cause B<TShark> to run in "multiple files" mode.  In "multiple files" mode,
B<TShark> will write to several capture files. When the first capture file
fills up, B<TShark> will switch writing to the next file and so on.

The created filenames are based on the filename given with the B<-w> option,
the number of the file and on the creation date and time,
e.g. outfile_00001_20050604120117.pcap, outfile_00002_20050604120523.pcap, ...

With the I<files> option it's also possible to form a "ring buffer".
This will fill up new files until the number of files specified,
at which point B<TShark> will discard the data in the first file and start
writing to that file and so on. If the I<files> option is not set,
new files filled up until one of the capture stop conditions match (or
until the disk is full).

The criterion is of the form I<key>B<:>I<value>,
where I<key> is one of:

B<duration>:I<value> switch to the next file after I<value> seconds have
elapsed, even if the current file is not completely filled up.

B<filesize>:I<value> switch to the next file after it reaches a size of
I<value> kilobytes (where a kilobyte is 1024 bytes).

B<files>:I<value> begin again with the first file after I<value> number of
files were written (form a ring buffer).  This value must be less than 100000.
Caution should be used when using large numbers of files: some filesystems do
not handle many files in a single directory well.  The B<files> criterion
requires either B<duration> or B<filesize> to be specified to control when to
go to the next file.  It should be noted that each B<-b> parameter takes exactly
one criterion; to specify two criterion, each must be preceded by the B<-b>
option.

Example: B<-b filesize:1024 -b files:5> results in a ring buffer of five files
of size one megabyte.

=item -B  E<lt>capture buffer sizeE<gt>

Set capture buffer size (in MB, default is 1MB).  This is used by the
the capture driver to buffer packet data until that data can be written
to disk.  If you encounter packet drops while capturing, try to increase
this size.  Note that, while B<Tshark> attempts to set the buffer size
to 1MB by default, and can be told to set it to a larger value, the
system or interface on which you're capturing might silently limit the
capture buffer size to a lower value or raise it to a higher value.

This is available on UNIX systems with libpcap 1.0.0 or later and on
Windows.  It is not available on UNIX systems with earlier versions of
libpcap.

=item -c  E<lt>capture packet countE<gt>

Set the maximum number of packets to read when capturing live
data. If reading a capture file, set the maximum number of packets to read.

=item -C  E<lt>configuration profileE<gt>

Run with the given configuration profile.

=item -d  E<lt>layer typeE<gt>==E<lt>selectorE<gt>,E<lt>decode-as protocolE<gt>

Like Wireshark's B<Decode As...> feature, this lets you specify how a
layer type should be dissected. If the layer type in question (for example,
B<tcp.port> or B<udp.port> for a TCP or UDP port number) has the specified
selector value, packets should be dissected as the specified protocol.

Example: B<-d tcp.port==8888,http> will decode any traffic running over
TCP port 8888 as HTTP.

Using an invalid selector or protocol will print out a list of valid selectors
and protocol names, respectively.

Example: B<-d .> is a quick way to get a list of valid selectors.

Example: B<-d ethertype==0x0800.> is a quick way to get a list of protocols that can be
selected with an ethertype.

=item -D

Print a list of the interfaces on which B<TShark> can capture, and
exit.  For each network interface, a number and an
interface name, possibly followed by a text description of the
interface, is printed.  The interface name or the number can be supplied
to the B<-i> option to specify an interface on which to capture.

This can be useful on systems that don't have a command to list them
(e.g., Windows systems, or UNIX systems lacking B<ifconfig -a>);
the number can be useful on Windows 2000 and later systems, where the
interface name is a somewhat complex string.

Note that "can capture" means that B<TShark> was able to open that
device to do a live capture.  Depending on your system you may need to
run tshark from an account with special privileges (for example, as
root) to be able to capture network traffic.  If B<TShark -D> is not run
from such an account, it will not list any interfaces.

=item -e  E<lt>fieldE<gt>

Add a field to the list of fields to display if B<-T fields> is
selected.  This option can be used multiple times on the command line.
At least one field must be provided if the B<-T fields> option is
selected.

Example: B<-e frame.number -e ip.addr -e udp>

Giving a protocol rather than a single field will print multiple items
of data about the protocol as a single field.  Fields are separated by
tab characters by default.  B<-E> controls the format of the printed
fields.

=item -E  E<lt>field print optionE<gt>

Set an option controlling the printing of fields when B<-T fields> is
selected.

Options are:

B<header=y|n> If B<y>, print a list of the field names given using B<-e>
as the first line of the output; the field name will be separated using
the same character as the field values.  Defaults to B<n>.

B<separator=/t|/s|>E<lt>characterE<gt> Set the separator character to
use for fields.  If B</t> tab will be used (this is the default), if
B</s>, a single space will be used.  Otherwise any character that can be
accepted by the command line as part of the option may be used.

B<occurrence=f|l|a> Select which occurrence to use for fields that have
multiple occurrences.  If B<f> the first occurrence will be used, if B<l>
the last occurrence will be used and if B<a> all occurrences will be used
(this is the default).

B<aggregator=,|/s|>E<lt>characterE<gt> Set the aggregator character to
use for fields that have multiple occurrences.  If B<,> a comma will be used
(this is the default), if B</s>, a single space will be used.  Otherwise
any character that can be accepted by the command line as part of the
option may be used.

B<quote=d|s|n> Set the quote character to use to surround fields.  B<d>
uses double-quotes, B<s> single-quotes, B<n> no quotes (the default).

=item -f  E<lt>capture filterE<gt>

Set the capture filter expression.

=item -F  E<lt>file formatE<gt>

Set the file format of the output capture file written using the B<-w>
option.  The output written with the B<-w> option is raw packet data, not
text, so there is no B<-F> option to request text output.  The option B<-F>
without a value will list the available formats.

=item -G  [fields|fields2|fields3|protocols|values|decodes|defaultprefs|currentprefs]

The B<-G> option will cause B<Tshark> to dump one of several types of glossaries
and then exit.  If no specific glossary type is specified, then the B<fields> report will be generated by default.

The available report types include:

B<fields>  Dumps the contents of the registration database to
stdout. An independent program can take this output and format it into nice
tables or HTML or whatever.  There is one record per line. Each record is
either a protocol or a header field, differentiated by the first field.
The fields are tab-delimited.

 * Protocols
 * ---------
 * Field 1 = 'P'
 * Field 2 = descriptive protocol name
 * Field 3 = protocol abbreviation
 *
 * Header Fields
 * -------------
 * Field 1 = 'F'
 * Field 2 = descriptive field name
 * Field 3 = field abbreviation
 * Field 4 = type ( textual representation of the ftenum type )
 * Field 5 = parent protocol abbreviation
 * Field 6 = blurb describing field

B<fields2>  Same as the B<fields> report but includes two additional columns.

 * Field 7 = base for display (for integer types); "parent bitfield width" for FT_BOOLEAN
 * Field 8 = blurb describing field (yes, apparently we repeated this accidentally)

B<fields3>  Same as the B<fields> report but includes two additional columns.

 * Field 7 = base for display (for integer types); "parent bitfield width" for FT_BOOLEAN
 * Field 8 = bitmask: format: hex: 0x....

B<protocols> Dumps the protocols in the registration database to stdout.
An independent program can take this output and format it into nice tables
or HTML or whatever. There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

 * Field 1 = protocol name
 * Field 2 = protocol short name
 * Field 3 = protocol filter name

B<values> Dumps the value_strings, range_strings or true/false strings
for fields that have them. There is one record per line. Fields are
tab-delimited.  There are three types of records: Value String, Range
String and True/False String. The first field, 'V', 'R' or 'T', indicates
the type of record.

 * Value Strings
 * -------------
 * Field 1 = 'V'
 * Field 2 = field abbreviation to which this value string corresponds
 * Field 3 = Integer value
 * Field 4 = String
 *
 * Range Strings
 * -------------
 * Field 1 = 'R'
 * Field 2 = field abbreviation to which this range string corresponds
 * Field 3 = Integer value: lower bound
 * Field 4 = Integer value: upper bound
 * Field 5 = String
 *
 * True/False Strings
 * ------------------
 * Field 1 = 'T'
 * Field 2 = field abbreviation to which this true/false string corresponds
 * Field 3 = True String
 * Field 4 = False String

B<decodes> Dumps the "layer type"/"decode as" associations to stdout.
There is one record per line. The fields are tab-delimited.

 * Field 1 = layer type, e.g. "tcp.port"
 * Field 2 = selector in decimal
 * Field 3 = "decode as" name, e.g. "http"

B<defaultprefs>  Dumps a default preferences file to stdout.

B<currentprefs>  Dumps a copy of the current preferences file to stdout.

=item -h

Print the version and options and exits.

=item -H  E<lt>input hosts fileE<gt>

Read a list of entries from a "hosts" file, which will then be written
to a capture file. Implies B<-W n>.

The "hosts" file format is documented at
L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosts_(file)>.

=item -i  E<lt>capture interfaceE<gt> | -

Set the name of the network interface or pipe to use for live packet
capture.

Network interface names should match one of the names listed in
"B<tshark -D>" (described above); a number, as reported by
"B<tshark -D>", can also be used.  If you're using UNIX, "B<netstat
-i>" or "B<ifconfig -a>" might also work to list interface names,
although not all versions of UNIX support the B<-a> option to B<ifconfig>.

If no interface is specified, B<TShark> searches the list of
interfaces, choosing the first non-loopback interface if there are any
non-loopback interfaces, and choosing the first loopback interface if
there are no non-loopback interfaces. If there are no interfaces at all,
B<TShark> reports an error and doesn't start the capture.

Pipe names should be either the name of a FIFO (named pipe) or ``-'' to
read data from the standard input.  Data read from pipes must be in
standard libpcap format.

Note: the Win32 version of B<TShark> doesn't support capturing from
pipes!

=item -I

Put the interface in "monitor mode"; this is supported only on IEEE
802.11 Wi-Fi interfaces, and supported only on some operating systems.

Note that in monitor mode the adapter might disassociate from the
network with which it's associated, so that you will not be able to use
any wireless networks with that adapter.  This could prevent accessing
files on a network server, or resolving host names or network addresses,
if you are capturing in monitor mode and are not connected to another
network with another adapter.

=item -K  E<lt>keytabE<gt>

Load kerberos crypto keys from the specified keytab file.
This option can be used multiple times to load keys from several files.

Example: B<-K krb5.keytab>

=item -l

Flush the standard output after the information for each packet is
printed.  (This is not, strictly speaking, line-buffered if B<-V>
was specified; however, it is the same as line-buffered if B<-V> wasn't
specified, as only one line is printed for each packet, and, as B<-l> is
normally used when piping a live capture to a program or script, so that
output for a packet shows up as soon as the packet is seen and
dissected, it should work just as well as true line-buffering.  We do
this as a workaround for a deficiency in the Microsoft Visual C++ C
library.)

This may be useful when piping the output of B<TShark> to another
program, as it means that the program to which the output is piped will
see the dissected data for a packet as soon as B<TShark> sees the
packet and generates that output, rather than seeing it only when the
standard output buffer containing that data fills up.

=item -L

List the data link types supported by the interface and exit. The reported
link types can be used for the B<-y> option.

=item -n

Disable network object name resolution (such as hostname, TCP and UDP port
names); the B<-N> flag might override this one.

=item -N  E<lt>name resolving flagsE<gt>

Turn on name resolving only for particular types of addresses and port
numbers, with name resolving for other types of addresses and port
numbers turned off. This flag overrides B<-n> if both B<-N> and B<-n> are
present. If both B<-N> and B<-n> flags are not present, all name resolutions are
turned on.

The argument is a string that may contain the letters:

B<m> to enable MAC address resolution

B<n> to enable network address resolution

B<t> to enable transport-layer port number resolution

B<C> to enable concurrent (asynchronous) DNS lookups

=item -o  E<lt>preferenceE<gt>:E<lt>valueE<gt>

Set a preference value, overriding the default value and any value read
from a preference file.  The argument to the option is a string of the
form I<prefname>B<:>I<value>, where I<prefname> is the name of the
preference (which is the same name that would appear in the preference
file), and I<value> is the value to which it should be set.

=item -p

I<Don't> put the interface into promiscuous mode.  Note that the
interface might be in promiscuous mode for some other reason; hence,
B<-p> cannot be used to ensure that the only traffic that is captured is
traffic sent to or from the machine on which B<TShark> is running,
broadcast traffic, and multicast traffic to addresses received by that
machine.

=item -q

When capturing packets, don't display the continuous count of packets
captured that is normally shown when saving a capture to a file;
instead, just display, at the end of the capture, a count of packets
captured.  On systems that support the SIGINFO signal, such as various
BSDs, you can cause the current count to be displayed by typing your
"status" character (typically control-T, although it
might be set to "disabled" by default on at least some BSDs, so you'd
have to explicitly set it to use it).

When reading a capture file, or when capturing and not saving to a file,
don't print packet information; this is useful if you're using a B<-z>
option to calculate statistics and don't want the packet information
printed, just the statistics.

=item -r  E<lt>infileE<gt>

Read packet data from I<infile>, can be any supported capture file format
(including gzipped files). It's B<not> possible to use named pipes
or stdin here!

=item -R  E<lt>read (display) filterE<gt>

Cause the specified filter (which uses the syntax of read/display filters,
rather than that of capture filters) to be applied before printing a
decoded form of packets or writing packets to a file; packets not
matching the filter are discarded rather than being printed or written.

=item -s  E<lt>capture snaplenE<gt>

Set the default snapshot length to use when capturing live data.
No more than I<snaplen> bytes of each network packet will be read into
memory, or saved to disk.  A value of 0 specifies a snapshot length of
65535, so that the full packet is captured; this is the default.

=item -S

Decode and display packets even while writing raw packet data using the
B<-w> option.

=item -t  ad|a|r|d|dd|e

Set the format of the packet timestamp printed in summary lines.
The format can be one of:

B<ad> absolute with date: The absolute date and time is the actual time and
date the packet was captured

B<a> absolute: The absolute time is the actual time the packet was captured,
with no date displayed

B<r> relative: The relative time is the time elapsed between the first packet
and the current packet

B<d> delta: The delta time is the time since the previous packet was
captured

B<dd> delta_displayed: The delta_displayed time is the time since the
previous displayed packet was captured

B<e> epoch: The time in seconds since epoch (Jan 1, 1970 00:00:00)

The default format is relative.

=item -T  pdml|psml|ps|text|fields

Set the format of the output when viewing decoded packet data.  The
options are one of:

B<pdml> Packet Details Markup Language, an XML-based format for the details of
a decoded packet.  This information is equivalent to the packet details
printed with the B<-V> flag.

B<psml> Packet Summary Markup Language, an XML-based format for the summary
information of a decoded packet.  This information is equivalent to the
information shown in the one-line summary printed by default.

B<ps> PostScript for a human-readable one-line summary of each of the packets,
or a multi-line view of the details of each of the packets, depending on
whether the B<-V> flag was specified.

B<text> Text of a human-readable one-line summary of each of the packets, or a
multi-line view of the details of each of the packets, depending on
whether the B<-V> flag was specified.  This is the default.

B<fields> The values of fields specified with the B<-e> option, in a
form specified by the B<-E> option. For example,

  -T fields -E separator=, -E quote=d

would generate comma-separated values (CSV) output suitable for importing
into your favorite spreadsheet program.


=item -v

Print the version and exit.

=item -V

Cause B<TShark> to print a view of the packet details rather
than a one-line summary of the packet.

=item -w  E<lt>outfileE<gt> | -

Write raw packet data to I<outfile> or to the standard output if
I<outfile> is '-'.

NOTE: -w provides raw packet data, not text. If you want text output
you need to redirect stdout (e.g. using '>'), don't use the B<-w>
option for this.

=item -W  E<lt>file format optionE<gt>

Save extra information in the file if the format supports it. For
example,

  -F pcapng -W n

will save host name resolution records along with captured packets.

Future versions of Wireshark may automatically change the capture format to
B<pcapng> as needed.

The argument is a string that may contain the following letter:

B<n> write network address resolution information (pcapng only)

=item -x

Cause B<TShark> to print a hex and ASCII dump of the packet data
after printing the summary or details.

=item -X E<lt>eXtension optionsE<gt>

Specify an option to be passed to a B<TShark> module. The eXtension option
is in the form I<extension_key>B<:>I<value>, where I<extension_key> can be:

B<lua_script>:I<lua_script_filename> tells B<Wireshark> to load the given script in addition to the
default Lua scripts.

=item -y  E<lt>capture link typeE<gt>

Set the data link type to use while capturing packets.  The values
reported by B<-L> are the values that can be used.

=item -z  E<lt>statisticsE<gt>

Get B<TShark> to collect various types of statistics and display the result
after finishing reading the capture file.  Use the B<-q> flag if you're
reading a capture file and only want the statistics printed, not any
per-packet information.

Note that the B<-z proto> option is different - it doesn't cause
statistics to be gathered and printed when the capture is complete, it
modifies the regular packet summary output to include the values of
fields specified with the option.  Therefore you must not use the B<-q>
option, as that option would suppress the printing of the regular packet
summary output, and must also not use the B<-V> option, as that would
cause packet detail information rather than packet summary information
to be printed.

Currently implemented statistics are:

=over 4

=item B<-z> afp,srt[,I<filter>]

=item B<-z> camel,srt

=item B<-z> dcerpc,srt,I<uuid>,I<major>.I<minor>[,I<filter>]

Collect call/reply SRT (Service Response Time) data for DCERPC interface I<uuid>,
version I<major>.I<minor>.
Data collected is the number of calls for each procedure, MinSRT, MaxSRT
and AvgSRT.

Example: S<B<-z dcerpc,srt,12345778-1234-abcd-ef00-0123456789ac,1.0>> will collect data for the CIFS SAMR Interface.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.

Example: S<B<-z dcerpc,srt,12345778-1234-abcd-ef00-0123456789ac,1.0,ip.addr==1.2.3.4>> will collect SAMR
SRT statistics for a specific host.

=item B<-z> hosts[,ipv4][,ipv6]

Dump any collected IPv4 and/or IPv6 addresses in "hosts" format. Both IPv4
and IPv6 addresses are dumped by default.

Addresses are collected from a number of sources, including standard "hosts"
files and captured traffic.

=item B<-z> icmp,srt[,I<filter>]

Compute total ICMP echo requests, replies, loss, and percent loss, as well as
minimum, maximum, mean, median and sample standard deviation SRT statistics
typical of what ping provides.

Example: S<B<-z icmp,srt,ip.src==1.2.3.4>> will collect ICMP SRT statistics
for ICMP echo request packets originating from a specific host.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

=item B<-z> io,phs[,I<filter>]

Create Protocol Hierarchy Statistics listing both number of packets and bytes.
If no I<filter> is specified the statistics will be calculated for all packets.
If a I<filter> is specified statistics will be only calculated for those
packets that match the filter.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

=item B<-z> io,stat,I<interval>[,I<filter>][,I<filter>][,I<filter>]...

Collect packet/bytes statistics for the capture in intervals of
I<interval> seconds.  I<Interval> can be specified either as a whole or
fractional second and can be specified with ms resolution.
If I<interval> is 0, the statistics will be calculated over all packets.

If no I<filter> is specified the statistics will be calculated for all packets.
If one or more I<filters> are specified statistics will be calculated for
all filters and presented with one column of statistics for each filter.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

Example: B<-z io,stat,1,ip.addr==1.2.3.4> will generate 1 second
statistics for all traffic to/from host 1.2.3.4.

Example: B<-z "io,stat,0.001,smb&&ip.addr==1.2.3.4"> will generate 1ms
statistics for all SMB packets to/from host 1.2.3.4.

The examples above all use the standard syntax for generating statistics
which only calculates the number of packets and bytes in each interval.

B<io,stat> can also do much more statistics and calculate COUNT(), SUM(),
MIN(), MAX(), and AVG() using a slightly different filter syntax:

  [COUNT|SUM|MIN|MAX|AVG](<field>)<filter>

NOTE: One important thing to note here is that the field that the
calculation is based on MUST also be part of the filter string or
else the calculation will fail.

So: B<-z io,stat,0.010,AVG(smb.time)> does not work.  Use B<-z
io,stat,0.010,AVG(smb.time)smb.time> instead.  Also be aware that a field
can exist multiple times inside the same packet and will then be counted
multiple times in those packets.

NOTE: A second important thing to note is that the system setting for
decimal separator is set to "."! If it is set to "," the statistics
will not be displayed per filter.

COUNT(<field>) can be used on any type which has a display filter name.
It will count how many times this particular field is encountered in the
filtered packet list.

Example: B<-z io,stat,0.010,COUNT(smb.sid)smb.sid>

This will count the total number of SIDs seen in each 10ms interval.

SUM(<field>) can only be used on named fields of integer type.
This will sum together every occurrence of this field's value for each interval.

Example: B<-z io,stat,0.010,SUM(frame.pkt_len)frame.pkt_len>

This will report the total number of bytes seen in all the packets within
an interval.

MIN/MAX/AVG(<field>) can only be used on named fields that are either
integers or relative time fields.  This will calculate maximum/minimum
or average seen in each interval.  If the field is a relative time field
the output will be presented in seconds and three digits after the
decimal point.  The resolution for time calculations is 1ms and anything
smaller will be truncated.

Example:  B<-z "io,stat,0.010,smb.time&&ip.addr==1.1.1.1,MIN(smb.time)smb.time&&ip.addr==1.1.1.1,MAX(smb.time)smb.time&&ip.addr==1.1.1.1,MAX(smb.time)smb.time&&ip.addr==1.1.1.1">

This will calculate statistics for all smb response times we see to/from
host 1.1.1.1 in 10ms intervals.  The output will be displayed in 4
columns; number of packets/bytes, minimum response time, maximum response
time and average response time.

=item B<-z> conv,I<type>[,I<filter>]

Create a table that lists all conversations that could be seen in the
capture.  I<type> specifies the conversation endpoint types for which we
want to generate the statistics; currently the supported ones are:

  "eth"   Ethernet addresses
  "fc"    Fibre Channel addresses
  "fddi"  FDDI addresses
  "ip"    IPv4 addresses
  "ipv6"  IPv6 addresses
  "ipx"   IPX addresses
  "tcp"   TCP/IP socket pairs  Both IPv4 and IPv6 are supported
  "tr"    Token Ring addresses
  "udp"   UDP/IP socket pairs  Both IPv4 and IPv6 are supported

If the optional I<filter> is specified, only those packets that match the
filter will be used in the calculations.

The table is presented with one line for each conversation and displays
the number of packets/bytes in each direction as well as the total
number of packets/bytes.  The table is sorted according to the total
number of bytes.

=item B<-z> proto,colinfo,I<filter>,I<field>

Append all I<field> values for the packet to the Info column of the
one-line summary output.
This feature can be used to append arbitrary fields to the Info column
in addition to the normal content of that column.
I<field> is the display-filter name of a field which value should be placed
in the Info column.
I<filter> is a filter string that controls for which packets the field value
will be presented in the info column. I<field> will only be presented in the
Info column for the packets which match I<filter>.

NOTE: In order for B<TShark> to be able to extract the I<field> value
from the packet, I<field> MUST be part of the I<filter> string.  If not,
B<TShark> will not be able to extract its value.

For a simple example to add the "nfs.fh.hash" field to the Info column
for all packets containing the "nfs.fh.hash" field, use

B<-z proto,colinfo,nfs.fh.hash,nfs.fh.hash>

To put "nfs.fh.hash" in the Info column but only for packets coming from
host 1.2.3.4 use:

B<-z "proto,colinfo,nfs.fh.hash && ip.src==1.2.3.4,nfs.fh.hash">

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

=item B<-z> diameter,avp[,I<cmd.code>,I<field>,I<field>,I<...>]

This option enables extraction of most important diameter fields from large capture files.
Exactly one text line for each diameter message with matched B<diameter.cmd.code> will be printed.

Empty diameter command code or '*' can be specified to mach any B<diameter.cmd.code>

Example: B<-z diameter,avp>  extract default field set from diameter messages.

Example: B<-z diameter,avp,280>  extract default field set from diameter DWR messages.

Example: B<-z diameter,avp,272>  extract default field set from diameter CC messages.

Extract most important fields from diameter CC messages:

B<tshark -r file.cap.gz -q -z diameter,avp,272,CC-Request-Type,CC-Request-Number,Session-Id,Subscription-Id-Data,Rating-Group,Result-Code>

Following fields will be printed out for each diameter message:

  "frame"        Frame number.
  "time"         Unix time of the frame arrival.
  "src"          Source address.
  "srcport"      Source port.
  "dst"          Destination address.
  "dstport"      Destination port.
  "proto"        Constant string 'diameter', which can be used for post processing of tshark output. e.g. grep/sed/awk.
  "msgnr"        seq. number of diameter message within the frame. E.g. '2' for the third diameter message in the same frame.
  "is_request"   '0' if message is a request, '1' if message is an answer.
  "cmd"          diameter.cmd_code, E.g. '272' for credit control messages.
  "req_frame"    Number of frame where matched request was found or '0'.
  "ans_frame"    Number of frame where matched answer was found or '0'.
  "resp_time"    response time in seconds, '0' in case if matched Request/Answer is not found in trace. E.g. in the begin or end of capture.

B<-z diameter,avp> option is much faster than B<-V -T text> or B<-T pdml> options.

B<-z diameter,avp> option is more powerful than B<-T field> and B<-z proto,colinfo> options.

Multiple diameter messages in one frame are supported.

Several fields with same name within one diameter message are supported, e.g. I<diameter.Subscription-Id-Data> or I<diameter.Rating-Group>.

Note: B<tshark -q> option is recommended to suppress default B<tshark> output.

=item B<-z> rpc,srt,I<program>,I<version>[,I<filter>]

Collect call/reply SRT (Service Response Time) data for I<program>/I<version>.  Data collected
is number of calls for each procedure, MinSRT, MaxSRT and AvgSRT.

Example: B<-z rpc,srt,100003,3> will collect data for NFS v3.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.

Example: B<-z rpc,srt,100003,3,nfs.fh.hash==0x12345678> will collect NFS v3
SRT statistics for a specific file.

=item B<-z> rpc,programs

Collect call/reply SRT data for all known ONC-RPC programs/versions.
Data collected is number of calls for each protocol/version, MinSRT,
MaxSRT and AvgSRT.
This option can only be used once on the command line.

=item B<-z> rtp,streams

Collect statistics for all RTP streams and calculate max. delta, max. and
mean jitter and packet loss percentages.

=item B<-z> scsi,srt,I<cmdset>[,<filter>]

Collect call/reply SRT (Service Response Time) data for SCSI commandset <cmdset>.

Commandsets are 0:SBC   1:SSC  5:MMC

Data collected
is the number of calls for each procedure, MinSRT, MaxSRT and AvgSRT.

Example: B<-z scsi,srt,0> will collect data for SCSI BLOCK COMMANDS (SBC).

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.

Example: B<-z scsi,srt,0,ip.addr==1.2.3.4> will collect SCSI SBC
SRT statistics for a specific iscsi/ifcp/fcip host.

=item B<-z> smb,srt[,I<filter>]

Collect call/reply SRT (Service Response Time) data for SMB.  Data collected
is number of calls for each SMB command, MinSRT, MaxSRT and AvgSRT.

Example: B<-z smb,srt>

The data will be presented as separate tables for all normal SMB commands,
all Transaction2 commands and all NT Transaction commands.
Only those commands that are seen in the capture will have its stats
displayed.
Only the first command in a xAndX command chain will be used in the
calculation.  So for common SessionSetupAndX + TreeConnectAndX chains,
only the SessionSetupAndX call will be used in the statistics.
This is a flaw that might be fixed in the future.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.

Example: B<-z "smb,srt,ip.addr==1.2.3.4"> will only collect stats for
SMB packets exchanged by the host at IP address 1.2.3.4 .

=item B<-z> smb,sids

When this feature is used B<TShark> will print a report with all the
discovered SID and account name mappings.  Only those SIDs where the
account name is known will be presented in the table.

For this feature to work you will need to either to enable
"Edit/Preferences/Protocols/SMB/Snoop SID to name mappings" in the
preferences or you can override the preferences by specifying
S<B<-o "smb.sid_name_snooping:TRUE">> on the B<TShark> command line.

The current method used by B<TShark> to find the SID->name mapping
is relatively restricted with a hope of future expansion.

=item B<-z> mgcp,rtd[I<,filter>]

Collect requests/response RTD (Response Time Delay) data for MGCP.
(This is similar to B<-z smb,srt>). Data collected is the number of calls
for each known MGCP Type, MinRTD, MaxRTD and AvgRTD.
Additionally you get the number of duplicate requests/responses,
unresponded requests, responses, which don't match with any request.
Example: B<-z mgcp,rtd>.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.
Example: B<-z "mgcp,rtd,ip.addr==1.2.3.4"> will only collect stats for
MGCP packets exchanged by the host at IP address 1.2.3.4 .

=item B<-z> megaco,rtd[I<,filter>]

Collect requests/response RTD (Response Time Delay) data for MEGACO.
(This is similar to B<-z smb,srt>). Data collected is the number of calls
for each known MEGACO Type, MinRTD, MaxRTD and AvgRTD.
Additionally you get the number of duplicate requests/responses,
unresponded requests, responses, which don't match with any request.
Example: B<-z megaco,rtd>.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.
Example: B<-z "megaco,rtd,ip.addr==1.2.3.4"> will only collect stats for
MEGACO packets exchanged by the host at IP address 1.2.3.4 .

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

=item B<-z> h225,counter[I<,filter>]

Count ITU-T H.225 messages and their reasons. In the first column you get a
list of H.225 messages and H.225 message reasons, which occur in the current
capture file. The number of occurrences of each message or reason is displayed
in the second column.

Example: B<-z h225,counter>.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.
Example: use B<-z "h225,counter,ip.addr==1.2.3.4"> to only collect stats for
H.225 packets exchanged by the host at IP address 1.2.3.4 .

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

=item B<-z> h225,srt[I<,filter>]

Collect requests/response SRT (Service Response Time) data for ITU-T H.225 RAS.
Data collected is number of calls of each ITU-T H.225 RAS Message Type,
Minimum SRT, Maximum SRT, Average SRT, Minimum in Packet, and Maximum in Packet.
You will also get the number of Open Requests (Unresponded Requests),
Discarded Responses (Responses without matching request) and Duplicate Messages.

Example: B<-z h225,srt>

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.

Example: B<-z "h225,srt,ip.addr==1.2.3.4"> will only collect stats for
ITU-T H.225 RAS packets exchanged by the host at IP address 1.2.3.4 .

=item B<-z> sip,stat[I<,filter>]

This option will activate a counter for SIP messages. You will get the number
of occurrences of each SIP Method and of each SIP Status-Code. Additionally you
also get the number of resent SIP Messages (only for SIP over UDP).

Example: B<-z sip,stat>.

This option can be used multiple times on the command line.

If the optional I<filter> is provided, the stats will only be calculated
on those calls that match that filter.
Example: B<-z "sip,stat,ip.addr==1.2.3.4"> will only collect stats for
SIP packets exchanged by the host at IP address 1.2.3.4 .

=back

=back

=head1 CAPTURE FILTER SYNTAX

See the manual page of pcap-filter(4) or, if that doesn't exist, tcpdump(8),
or, if that doesn't exist, L<http://wiki.wireshark.org/CaptureFilters>.

=head1 READ FILTER SYNTAX

For a complete table of protocol and protocol fields that are filterable
in B<TShark> see the wireshark-filter(4) manual page.

=head1 FILES

These files contains various B<Wireshark> configuration values.

=over 4

=item Preferences

The F<preferences> files contain global (system-wide) and personal
preference settings. If the system-wide preference file exists, it is
read first, overriding the default settings. If the personal preferences
file exists, it is read next, overriding any previous values. Note: If
the command line option B<-o> is used (possibly more than once), it will
in turn override values from the preferences files.

The preferences settings are in the form I<prefname>B<:>I<value>,
one per line,
where I<prefname> is the name of the preference
and I<value> is the value to
which it should be set; white space is allowed between B<:> and
I<value>.  A preference setting can be continued on subsequent lines by
indenting the continuation lines with white space.  A B<#> character
starts a comment that runs to the end of the line:

  # Capture in promiscuous mode?
  # TRUE or FALSE (case-insensitive).
  capture.prom_mode: TRUE

The global preferences file is looked for in the F<wireshark> directory
under the F<share> subdirectory of the main installation directory (for
example, F</usr/local/share/wireshark/preferences>) on UNIX-compatible
systems, and in the main installation directory (for example,
F<C:\Program Files\Wireshark\preferences>) on Windows systems.

The personal preferences file is looked for in
F<$HOME/.wireshark/preferences> on
UNIX-compatible systems and F<%APPDATA%\Wireshark\preferences> (or, if
%APPDATA% isn't defined, F<%USERPROFILE%\Application
Data\Wireshark\preferences>) on Windows systems.

=item Disabled (Enabled) Protocols

The F<disabled_protos> files contain system-wide and personal lists of
protocols that have been disabled, so that their dissectors are never
called.  The files contain protocol names, one per line, where the
protocol name is the same name that would be used in a display filter
for the protocol:

  http
  tcp     # a comment

The global F<disabled_protos> file uses the same directory as the global
preferences file.

The personal F<disabled_protos> file uses the same directory as the
personal preferences file.

=item Name Resolution (hosts)

If the personal F<hosts> file exists, it is
used to resolve IPv4 and IPv6 addresses before any other
attempts are made to resolve them.  The file has the standard F<hosts>
file syntax; each line contains one IP address and name, separated by
whitespace. The same directory as for the personal preferences file is
used.

Capture filter name resolution is handled by libpcap on UNIX-compatible
systems and WinPCAP on Windows.  As such the Wireshark personal F<hosts> file
will not be consulted for capture filter name resolution.

=item Name Resolution (ethers)

The F<ethers> files are consulted to correlate 6-byte hardware addresses to
names. First the personal F<ethers> file is tried and if an address is not
found there the global F<ethers> file is tried next.

Each line contains one hardware address and name, separated by
whitespace.  The digits of the hardware address are separated by colons
(:), dashes (-) or periods (.).  The same separator character must be
used consistently in an address. The following three lines are valid
lines of an F<ethers> file:

  ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff          Broadcast
  c0-00-ff-ff-ff-ff          TR_broadcast
  00.00.00.00.00.00          Zero_broadcast

The global F<ethers> file is looked for in the F</etc> directory on
UNIX-compatible systems, and in the main installation directory (for
example, F<C:\Program Files\Wireshark>) on Windows systems.

The personal F<ethers> file is looked for in the same directory as the personal
preferences file.

Capture filter name resolution is handled by libpcap on UNIX-compatible
systems and WinPCAP on Windows.  As such the Wireshark personal F<ethers> file
will not be consulted for capture filter name resolution.

=item Name Resolution (manuf)

The F<manuf> file is used to match the 3-byte vendor portion of a 6-byte
hardware address with the manufacturer's name; it can also contain well-known
MAC addresses and address ranges specified with a netmask.  The format of the
file is the same as the F<ethers> files, except that entries of the form:

  00:00:0C      Cisco

can be provided, with the 3-byte OUI and the name for a vendor, and
entries such as:

  00-00-0C-07-AC/40     All-HSRP-routers

can be specified, with a MAC address and a mask indicating how many bits
of the address must match. The above entry, for example, has 40
significant bits, or 5 bytes, and would match addresses from
00-00-0C-07-AC-00 through 00-00-0C-07-AC-FF. The mask need not be a
multiple of 8.

The F<manuf> file is looked for in the same directory as the global
preferences file.

=item Name Resolution (ipxnets)

The F<ipxnets> files are used to correlate 4-byte IPX network numbers to
names. First the global F<ipxnets> file is tried and if that address is not
found there the personal one is tried next.

The format is the same as the F<ethers>
file, except that each address is four bytes instead of six.
Additionally, the address can be represented as a single hexadecimal
number, as is more common in the IPX world, rather than four hex octets.
For example, these four lines are valid lines of an F<ipxnets> file:

  C0.A8.2C.00              HR
  c0-a8-1c-00              CEO
  00:00:BE:EF              IT_Server1
  110f                     FileServer3

The global F<ipxnets> file is looked for in the F</etc> directory on
UNIX-compatible systems, and in the main installation directory (for
example, F<C:\Program Files\Wireshark>) on Windows systems.

The personal F<ipxnets> file is looked for in the same directory as the
personal preferences file.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 4

=item WIRESHARK_DEBUG_EP_NO_CHUNKS

Normally per-packet memory is allocated in large "chunks."  This behavior
doesn't work well with debugging tools such as Valgrind or ElectricFence.
Export this environment variable to force individual allocations.
Note: disabling chunks also disables canaries (see below).

=item WIRESHARK_DEBUG_SE_NO_CHUNKS

Normally per-file memory is allocated in large "chunks."  This behavior
doesn't work well with debugging tools such as Valgrind or ElectricFence.
Export this environment variable to force individual allocations.
Note: disabling chunks also disables canaries (see below).

=item WIRESHARK_DEBUG_EP_NO_CANARY

Normally per-packet memory allocations are separated by "canaries" which
allow detection of memory overruns.  This comes at the expense of some extra
memory usage.  Exporting this environment variable disables these canaries.

=item WIRESHARK_DEBUG_SE_USE_CANARY

Exporting this environment variable causes per-file memory allocations to be
protected with "canaries" which allow for detection of memory overruns.
This comes at the expense of significant extra memory usage.

=item WIRESHARK_DEBUG_SCRUB_MEMORY

If this environment variable is exported, the contents of per-packet and
per-file memory is initialized to 0xBADDCAFE when the memory is allocated
and is reset to 0xDEADBEEF when the memory is freed.  This functionality is
useful mainly to developers looking for bugs in the way memory is handled.

=item WIRESHARK_RUN_FROM_BUILD_DIRECTORY

This environment variable causes the plugins and other data files to be loaded
from the build directory (where the program was compiled) rather than from the
standard locations.  It has no effect when the program in question is running
with root (or setuid) permissions on *NIX.

=item WIRESHARK_DATA_DIR

This environment variable causes the various data files to be loaded from
a directory other than the standard locations.  It has no effect when the
program in question is running with root (or setuid) permissions on *NIX.

=item WIRESHARK_PYTHON_DIR

This environment variable points to an alternate location for Python.
It has no effect when the program in question is running with root (or setuid)
permissions on *NIX.

=item ERF_RECORDS_TO_CHECK

This environment variable controls the number of ERF records checked when
deciding if a file really is in the ERF format.  Setting this environment
variable a number higher than the default (20) would make false positives
less likely.

=item IPFIX_RECORDS_TO_CHECK

This environment variable controls the number of IPFIX records checked when
deciding if a file really is in the IPFIX format.  Setting this environment
variable a number higher than the default (20) would make false positives
less likely.

=item WIRESHARK_ABORT_ON_DISSECTOR_BUG

If this environment variable is set, B<TShark> will call abort(3)
when a dissector bug is encountered.  abort(3) will cause the program to
exit abnormally; if you are running B<TShark> in a debugger, it
should halt in the debugger and allow inspection of the process, and, if
you are not running it in a debugger, it will, on some OSes, assuming
your environment is configured correctly, generate a core dump file.
This can be useful to developers attempting to troubleshoot a problem
with a protocol dissector.

=item WIRESHARK_EP_VERIFY_POINTERS

This environment variable, if exported, causes certain uses of pointers to be
audited to ensure they do not point to memory that is deallocated after each
packet has been fully dissected.  This can be useful to developers writing or
auditing code.

=item WIRESHARK_SE_VERIFY_POINTERS

This environment variable, if exported, causes certain uses of pointers to be
audited to ensure they do not point to memory that is deallocated after when
a capture file is closed.  This can be useful to developers writing or
auditing code.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

wireshark-filter(4), wireshark(1), editcap(1), pcap-filter(4), tcpdump(8),
pcap(3), dumpcap(1), text2pcap(1), mergecap(1)

=head1 NOTES

B<TShark> is part of the B<Wireshark> distribution.  The latest version
of B<Wireshark> can be found at L<http://www.wireshark.org>.

HTML versions of the Wireshark project man pages are available at:
L<http://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages>.

=head1 AUTHORS

B<TShark> uses the same packet dissection code that B<Wireshark> does,
as well as using many other modules from B<Wireshark>; see the list of
authors in the B<Wireshark> man page for a list of authors of that code.
