doc/wsdg_src/wsdg_userinterface.adoc, before:

// WSDG Chapter User Interface

[#ChapterUserInterface]

== User Interface

[#ChUIIntro]

=== Introduction

Wireshark can be logically separated into the backend (dissecting protocols,
file loading and saving, capturing, etc.) and the frontend (the user interface).

The following frontends are currently maintained by the Wireshark
development team:

* Wireshark, Qt based

* TShark, console based

This chapter is focused on the Wireshark frontend, and especially on
the Qt interface.

[#ChUIQt]

=== The Qt Application Framework

Qt is a cross-platform application development framework. While we mainly use
the core (QtCore) and user interface (QtWidgets) modules, it also supports a
number of other modules for specialized application development, such as
networking (QtNetwork) and web browsing (QtWebKit).

At the time of this writing (September 2016) most of the main Wireshark
application has been ported to Qt. The sections below provide an
overview of the application and tips for Qt development in our
environment.

==== User Experience Considerations

When creating or modifying Wireshark try to make sure that it will work
well on Windows, macOS, and Linux. See <<ChUIGUIDocs>> for details.
Additionally, try to keep the following in mind:

*Workflow*. Excessive navigation and gratuitous dialogs should be
avoided or reduced. For example, compared to the legacy UI many alert
dialogs have been replaced with status bar messages. Statistics dialogs
are displayed immediately instead of requiring that options be
specified.

*Discoverability and feedback*. Most users don't like to read
documentation and instead prefer to learn an application as they use it.
Providing feedback increases your sense of control and awareness, and
makes the application more enjoyable to use. Most of the Qt dialogs
provide a “hint” area near the bottom which shows useful information.
For example, the “Follow Stream” dialog shows the packet corresponding
to the text under the mouse. The profile management dialog shows a
clickable path to the current profile. The main welcome screen shows
live interface traffic. Most dialogs have a context menu that shows
keyboard shortcuts.

==== Qt Creator

Qt Creator is a full-featured IDE and user interface editor. It makes
adding new UI features much easier. It doesn't work well on Windows at
the present time, so it’s recommended that you use it on macOS or Linux.

To edit and build Wireshark using Qt Creator, open the top-level
_CMakeLists.txt_ within Qt Creator. It should ask you to choose a build
location. Do so. It should then ask you to run CMake. Fill in any
desired build arguments (e.g. <<ChSrcBuildType,`-D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`>> or
`-D ENABLE_CCACHE=ON`) and click the btn:[Run CMake] button. When that
completes select menu:Build[Open Build and Run Kit Selector...] and make
sure _wireshark_ is selected.

Note that Qt Creator uses output created by CMake’s “CodeBlocks”
generator. If you run CMake outside of Qt Creator you should use the
“CodeBlocks - Unix Makefiles” generator, otherwise Qt Creator will
prompt you to re-run CMake.

==== Source Code Overview

Wireshark’s `main` entry point is in _ui/qt/main.cpp_. Command-line arguments
are processed there and the main application class (`WiresharkApplication`)
instance is created there along with the main window.

The main window along with the rest of the application resides in _ui/qt_. Due
to its size the main window code is split into several modules, _main_window.cpp_,
_wireshark_main_window.cpp_ and _wireshark_main_window_slots.cpp_.

Most of the modules in _ui/qt_ are dialogs. Although we follow Qt naming
conventions for class names, we follow our own conventions by separating file
name components with underscores. For example, ColoringRulesDialog is defined in
_coloring_rules_dialog.cpp_, _coloring_rules_dialog.h_, and
_coloring_rules_dialog.ui_.

General-purpose dialogs are subclasses of `QDialog`. Dialogs that rely on the
current capture file can subclass `WiresharkDialog`, which provides methods and
members that make it easier to access the capture file and to keep the dialog
open when the capture file closes.

==== Coding Practices and Naming Conventions

===== Names

The code in _ui/qt_ directory uses three APIs: Qt (which uses upper camel case), GLib (which uses snake_case), and the Wireshark
API (which also uses snake_case).

As a general rule, for names, Wireshark’s Qt code:

- uses upper camel case, in which words in the name are not separated by underscores, and the first letter of each word is capitalized, for classes, for example, `PacketList`;
- uses lower camel case, in which words in the name are not separated by underscores, and the first letter of each word other than the first word is capitalized, for methods, for example, `resetColumns`;
- uses snake case, in which words in the name are separated by underscores, and the first letter of the word is not capitalized, for variables, with a trailing underscore used for member variables, for example, `packet_list_model_`.

===== Dialogs

Dialogs that work with capture file information shouldn't close just because the
capture file closes. Subclassing `WiresharkDialog` as described above can make
it easier to persist across capture files.

When you create a window with a row of standard “OK” and “Close” buttons at
the bottom using Qt Creator you will end up with a subclass of QDialog. This is
fine for traditional modal dialogs, but many times the “dialog” needs to behave
like a QWindow instead.

Modal dialogs should be constructed with `QDialog(parent)`. Modeless dialogs
(windows) should be constructed with `QDialog(NULL, Qt::Window)`. Other
combinations (particularly `QDialog(parent, Qt::Window)`) can lead to odd and
inconsistent behavior. Again, subclassing `WiresharkDialog` will take care of
this for you.

Most of the dialogs in ui/qt share many similarities, including method names,
widget names, and behavior. Most dialogs should have the following, although
it’s not strictly required:

- An `updateWidgets()` method, which enables and disables widgets depending on
  the current state and constraints of the dialog. For example, the Coloring
  Rules dialog disables the *Save* button if the user has entered an
  invalid display filter.
- A `hintLabel()` widget subclassed from `QLabel` or `ElidedLabel`, placed just
  above the dialog button box. The hint label provides guidance and feedback to
  the user.
- A context menu (`ctx_menu_`) for additional actions not present in the
  button box.
- If the dialog box contains a `QTreeWidget` you might want to add your own
  `QTreeWidgetItem` subclass with the following methods:
  `drawData()`:: Draws column data with any needed formatting.
  `colData()`:: Returns the data for each column as a `QVariant`. Used for
    copying as CSV, YAML, etc.
  `operator<()`:: Allows sorting columns based on their raw data.

===== Strings

Wireshark’s C code and GLib use UTF-8 encoded character arrays. Qt
(specifically QString) uses UTF-16. You can convert a `char *` to a
`QString` using simple assignment. You can convert a `QString` to a
`const char *` using `qUtf8Printable`.

If you're using GLib string functions or plain old C character array
idioms in Qt-only code you're probably doing something wrong,
particularly if you're manually allocating and releasing memory.
QStrings are generally *much* safer and easier to use. They also make
translations easier.

If you need to pass strings between Qt and GLib you can use a number
of convenience routines which are defined in _ui/qt/utils/qt_ui_utils.h_.

If you're calling a function that returns wmem-allocated memory it might make
more sense to add a wrapper function to _qt_ui_utils_ than to call wmem_free in
your code.

===== Mixing C and {cpp}

Sometimes we have to call {cpp} functions from one of
Wireshark’s C callbacks and pass {cpp} objects to or from C. Tap
listeners are a common example. The {cpp} FAQ
https://www.parashift.com/c++-faq/mixing-c-and-cpp.html[describes how to do
this safely].

Tapping usually involves declaring static methods for callbacks, passing `this`
as the tap data.

[#ChUII18N]
===== Internationalization and Translation

Qt provides a convenient method for translating text: `Qobject::tr()`,
usually available as `tr()`.

However, please avoid using `tr()` for static strings and define them in _*.ui_
files instead. `tr()` on manually created objects like `QMenu` are not
automatically retranslated and must instead be manually translated using
`changeEvent()` and `retranslateUi()`. See _ui/qt/wireshark_main_window.cpp_ for an example
of this.

NOTE: If your object life is short and your components are (re)created
dynamically then it is ok to use `tr()`.

In most cases you should handle the changeEvent in order to catch
`QEvent::LanguageChange`.

Qt makes translating the Wireshark UI into different languages easy. To add a new
translation, do the following:

- Run the following to generate/update your translation files,
replacing XX with the ISO 639 language code:
----
lupdate -I. $(find ui/qt -name '*.cpp' -o -name '*.h' -o -name '*.ui') -ts ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts
msginit --no-translator --input packaging/debian/po/templates.pot --output packaging/debian/po/XX.po
----
- Add _ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts_ to _ui/qt/CMakeLists.txt_.
- Add _ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts_ to _.tx/config_.
- Translate with Qt Linguist: `linguist ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts`.
- Do a test build and make sure the generated _wireshark_XX.qm_ binary file is included.
- Fill in the msgStr fields in the XX.po file.
- Push your changes to GitLab for review. See <<ChSrcContribute>> for details.

Alternatively you can put your QM file in the _languages_
directory in the Wireshark user configuration directory
(_$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/wireshark/languages/_ or _$HOME/.wireshark/languages/_ on
UNIX).

For more information about Qt Linguist see
https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qtlinguist-index.html[its manual].

You can also manage translations online with
https://www.transifex.com/wireshark/wireshark/[Transifex].
Translation resources are organized by type of translation and development branch:

master::
Qt Linguist resources in the _ui/qt_ in the master branch.

debian::
GNU gettext resources in the _debian_ directory in the master branch.

qt-_XY_, master-_XY_::
Qt Linguist resources in the _ui/qt_ in the _X.Y_ release branch.
For example, qt-34 matches the Wireshark 3.2 release branch.

po-_XY_, debian-_XY_::
GNU gettext (.po) resources in the _debian_ directory in the _X.Y_ release branch.
For example, po-34 matches the Wireshark 3.4 release branch.

Each week translations are automatically synchronized with the source code through the following steps:

- Pull changes from Transifex by running `tx pull -f`.
- Run `lupdate` on the ts files.
- Push and commit on GitLab.
- Push changes to Transifex by running `tx push`.

===== Colors And Themes

Qt provides a number of colors via the https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qpalette.html[QPalette]
class. Use this class when you need a standard color provided by the
underlying operating system.

Wireshark uses an extended version of the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tango_Desktop_Project[Tango Color Palette]
for many interface elements that require custom colors. This includes the
I/O graphs, sequence diagrams, and RTP streams. Please use this palette
(defined in `tango_colors.h` and the *ColorUtils* class) if *QPalette*
doesn't meet your needs.

Wireshark supports dark themes (aka “dark mode”) on some platforms. We
leverage Qt's dark theme support when possible, but have implemented our
own support and workarounds in some cases. You can ensure that your code
includes proper dark theme support by doing the following:

* You can use a macOS-style template icon by creating a monochrome SVG
document with “.template” appended to the name, e.g.
`resources/stock_icons/24x24/edit-find.template.svg`.
* Qt draws unvisited links *Qt::blue* no matter what. You can work
around this by using `ColorUtils::themeLinkBrush()` and
`ColorUtils::themeLinkStyle()`.
* You can catch dark and light mode changes by handling
`QEvent::ApplicationPaletteChange`.

==== Other Issues and Information

The main window has many QActions which are shared with child widgets. See
_ui/qt/proto_tree.cpp_ for an example of this.

To demonstrate the functionality of the plugin interface options, a
demonstration plugin exists (pluginifdemo). See <<ChapterPlugins>> and
_plugins/ui/pluginifdemo_.

https://www.kdab.com/development-resources/qt-tools/gammaray/[GammaRay] lets you inspect
the internals of a running Qt application similar to $$Spy++$$ on Windows.

[#ChUIGUIDocs]

=== Human Interface Reference Documents

Wireshark runs on a number of platforms, primarily Windows, macOS, and
Linux. It should conform to the Windows, macOS, GNOME, and KDE human
interface guidelines as much as possible. Unfortunately, creating a
feature that works well across these platforms can sometimes be a
juggling act since the human interface guidelines for each platform
often contradict one another. If you run into trouble you can ask the
_wireshark-dev_ mailing list as well as the User Experience Stack
Exchange listed below.

For further reference, see the following:

* Android Design:
https://developer.android.com/design/[]. Wireshark doesn't have
a mobile frontend (not yet, at least) but there is still useful
information here.

* GNOME Human Interface Guidelines:
https://developer.gnome.org/hig/[]

* KDE Human Interface Guidelines:
https://hig.kde.org[]

* macOS Human Interface Guidelines:
https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/macos/overview/themes/[]

* Design guidelines for the Windows desktop:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/uxguide/guidelines[]

* User Experience Stack Exchange:
https://ux.stackexchange.com/[]

// End of WSDG Chapter User Interface

Commit message:

docs: Fix the Transifex URL
Our Transifex project is now at https://explore.transifex.com/wireshark/wireshark/. It doesn't look like you can directly link languages without
signing in, so just use that URL in our .po files.

AI-Assisted: no

doc/wsdg_src/wsdg_userinterface.adoc, after:

// WSDG Chapter User Interface

[#ChapterUserInterface]

== User Interface

[#ChUIIntro]

=== Introduction

Wireshark can be logically separated into the backend (dissecting protocols,
file loading and saving, capturing, etc.) and the frontend (the user interface).

The following frontends are currently maintained by the Wireshark
development team:

* Wireshark, Qt based

* TShark, console based

This chapter is focused on the Wireshark frontend, and especially on
the Qt interface.

[#ChUIQt]

=== The Qt Application Framework

Qt is a cross-platform application development framework. While we mainly use
the core (QtCore) and user interface (QtWidgets) modules, it also supports a
number of other modules for specialized application development, such as
networking (QtNetwork) and web browsing (QtWebKit).

At the time of this writing (September 2016) most of the main Wireshark
application has been ported to Qt. The sections below provide an
overview of the application and tips for Qt development in our
environment.

==== User Experience Considerations

When creating or modifying Wireshark try to make sure that it will work
well on Windows, macOS, and Linux. See <<ChUIGUIDocs>> for details.
Additionally, try to keep the following in mind:

*Workflow*. Excessive navigation and gratuitous dialogs should be
avoided or reduced. For example, compared to the legacy UI many alert
dialogs have been replaced with status bar messages. Statistics dialogs
are displayed immediately instead of requiring that options be
specified.

*Discoverability and feedback*. Most users don't like to read
documentation and instead prefer to learn an application as they use it.
Providing feedback increases your sense of control and awareness, and
makes the application more enjoyable to use. Most of the Qt dialogs
provide a “hint” area near the bottom which shows useful information.
For example, the “Follow Stream” dialog shows the packet corresponding
to the text under the mouse. The profile management dialog shows a
clickable path to the current profile. The main welcome screen shows
live interface traffic. Most dialogs have a context menu that shows
keyboard shortcuts.

==== Qt Creator

Qt Creator is a full-featured IDE and user interface editor. It makes
adding new UI features much easier. It doesn't work well on Windows at
the present time, so it’s recommended that you use it on macOS or Linux.

To edit and build Wireshark using Qt Creator, open the top-level
_CMakeLists.txt_ within Qt Creator. It should ask you to choose a build
location. Do so. It should then ask you to run CMake. Fill in any
desired build arguments (e.g. <<ChSrcBuildType,`-D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`>> or
`-D ENABLE_CCACHE=ON`) and click the btn:[Run CMake] button. When that
completes select menu:Build[Open Build and Run Kit Selector...] and make
sure _wireshark_ is selected.

Note that Qt Creator uses output created by CMake’s “CodeBlocks”
generator. If you run CMake outside of Qt Creator you should use the
“CodeBlocks - Unix Makefiles” generator, otherwise Qt Creator will
prompt you to re-run CMake.

==== Source Code Overview

Wireshark’s `main` entry point is in _ui/qt/main.cpp_. Command-line arguments
are processed there and the main application class (`WiresharkApplication`)
instance is created there along with the main window.

The main window along with the rest of the application resides in _ui/qt_. Due
to its size the main window code is split into several modules, _main_window.cpp_,
_wireshark_main_window.cpp_ and _wireshark_main_window_slots.cpp_.

Most of the modules in _ui/qt_ are dialogs. Although we follow Qt naming
conventions for class names, we follow our own conventions by separating file
name components with underscores. For example, ColoringRulesDialog is defined in
_coloring_rules_dialog.cpp_, _coloring_rules_dialog.h_, and
_coloring_rules_dialog.ui_.

General-purpose dialogs are subclasses of `QDialog`. Dialogs that rely on the
current capture file can subclass `WiresharkDialog`, which provides methods and
members that make it easier to access the capture file and to keep the dialog
open when the capture file closes.

==== Coding Practices and Naming Conventions

===== Names

The code in _ui/qt_ directory uses three APIs: Qt (which uses upper camel case), GLib (which uses snake_case), and the Wireshark
API (which also uses snake_case).

As a general rule, for names, Wireshark’s Qt code:

- uses upper camel case, in which words in the name are not separated by underscores, and the first letter of each word is capitalized, for classes, for example, `PacketList`;
- uses lower camel case, in which words in the name are not separated by underscores, and the first letter of each word other than the first word is capitalized, for methods, for example, `resetColumns`;
- uses snake case, in which words in the name are separated by underscores, and the first letter of the word is not capitalized, for variables, with a trailing underscore used for member variables, for example, `packet_list_model_`.

===== Dialogs

Dialogs that work with capture file information shouldn't close just because the
capture file closes. Subclassing `WiresharkDialog` as described above can make
it easier to persist across capture files.

When you create a window with a row of standard “OK” and “Close” buttons at
the bottom using Qt Creator you will end up with a subclass of QDialog. This is
fine for traditional modal dialogs, but many times the “dialog” needs to behave
like a QWindow instead.

Modal dialogs should be constructed with `QDialog(parent)`. Modeless dialogs
(windows) should be constructed with `QDialog(NULL, Qt::Window)`. Other
combinations (particularly `QDialog(parent, Qt::Window)`) can lead to odd and
inconsistent behavior. Again, subclassing `WiresharkDialog` will take care of
this for you.

Most of the dialogs in ui/qt share many similarities, including method names,
widget names, and behavior. Most dialogs should have the following, although
it’s not strictly required:

- An `updateWidgets()` method, which enables and disables widgets depending on
  the current state and constraints of the dialog. For example, the Coloring
  Rules dialog disables the *Save* button if the user has entered an
  invalid display filter.
- A `hintLabel()` widget subclassed from `QLabel` or `ElidedLabel`, placed just
  above the dialog button box. The hint label provides guidance and feedback to
  the user.
- A context menu (`ctx_menu_`) for additional actions not present in the
  button box.
- If the dialog box contains a `QTreeWidget` you might want to add your own
  `QTreeWidgetItem` subclass with the following methods:
  `drawData()`:: Draws column data with any needed formatting.
  `colData()`:: Returns the data for each column as a `QVariant`. Used for
    copying as CSV, YAML, etc.
  `operator<()`:: Allows sorting columns based on their raw data.

===== Strings

Wireshark’s C code and GLib use UTF-8 encoded character arrays. Qt
(specifically QString) uses UTF-16. You can convert a `char *` to a
`QString` using simple assignment. You can convert a `QString` to a
`const char *` using `qUtf8Printable`.

If you're using GLib string functions or plain old C character array
idioms in Qt-only code you're probably doing something wrong,
particularly if you're manually allocating and releasing memory.
QStrings are generally *much* safer and easier to use. They also make
translations easier.

If you need to pass strings between Qt and GLib you can use a number
of convenience routines which are defined in _ui/qt/utils/qt_ui_utils.h_.

If you're calling a function that returns wmem-allocated memory it might make
more sense to add a wrapper function to _qt_ui_utils_ than to call wmem_free in
your code.

===== Mixing C and {cpp}

Sometimes we have to call {cpp} functions from one of
Wireshark’s C callbacks and pass {cpp} objects to or from C. Tap
listeners are a common example. The {cpp} FAQ
https://www.parashift.com/c++-faq/mixing-c-and-cpp.html[describes how to do
this safely].

Tapping usually involves declaring static methods for callbacks, passing `this`
as the tap data.

[#ChUII18N]
===== Internationalization and Translation

Qt provides a convenient method for translating text: `Qobject::tr()`,
usually available as `tr()`.

However, please avoid using `tr()` for static strings and define them in _*.ui_
files instead. `tr()` on manually created objects like `QMenu` are not
automatically retranslated and must instead be manually translated using
`changeEvent()` and `retranslateUi()`. See _ui/qt/wireshark_main_window.cpp_ for an example
of this.

NOTE: If your object life is short and your components are (re)created
dynamically then it is ok to use `tr()`.

In most cases you should handle the changeEvent in order to catch
`QEvent::LanguageChange`.

Qt makes translating the Wireshark UI into different languages easy. To add a new
translation, do the following:

- Run the following to generate/update your translation files,
replacing XX with the ISO 639 language code:
----
lupdate -I. $(find ui/qt -name '*.cpp' -o -name '*.h' -o -name '*.ui') -ts ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts
msginit --no-translator --input packaging/debian/po/templates.pot --output packaging/debian/po/XX.po
----
- Add _ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts_ to _ui/qt/CMakeLists.txt_.
- Add _ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts_ to _.tx/config_.
- Translate with Qt Linguist: `linguist ui/qt/wireshark_XX.ts`.
- Do a test build and make sure the generated _wireshark_XX.qm_ binary file is included.
- Fill in the msgStr fields in the XX.po file.
- Push your changes to GitLab for review. See <<ChSrcContribute>> for details.

Alternatively you can put your QM file in the _languages_
directory in the Wireshark user configuration directory
(_$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/wireshark/languages/_ or _$HOME/.wireshark/languages/_ on
UNIX).

For more information about Qt Linguist see
https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qtlinguist-index.html[its manual].

You can also manage translations online with
https://explore.transifex.com/wireshark/wireshark/[Transifex].
Translation resources are organized by type of translation and development branch:

master::
Qt Linguist resources in the _ui/qt_ in the master branch.

debian::
GNU gettext resources in the _debian_ directory in the master branch.

qt-_XY_, master-_XY_::
Qt Linguist resources in the _ui/qt_ in the _X.Y_ release branch.
For example, qt-34 matches the Wireshark 3.2 release branch.

po-_XY_, debian-_XY_::
GNU gettext (.po) resources in the _debian_ directory in the _X.Y_ release branch.
For example, po-34 matches the Wireshark 3.4 release branch.

Each week translations are link:{wireshark-code-file-url}/tools/update-tx[automatically synchronized] with the source code through the following steps:

- Pull changes from Transifex by running `tx pull -f`.
- Run `lupdate` on the ts files.
- Push and commit on GitLab.
- Push changes to Transifex by running `tx push`.

===== Colors And Themes

Qt provides a number of colors via the https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qpalette.html[QPalette]
class. Use this class when you need a standard color provided by the
underlying operating system.

Wireshark uses an extended version of the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tango_Desktop_Project[Tango Color Palette]
for many interface elements that require custom colors. This includes the
I/O graphs, sequence diagrams, and RTP streams. Please use this palette
(defined in `tango_colors.h` and the *ColorUtils* class) if *QPalette*
doesn't meet your needs.

Wireshark supports dark themes (aka “dark mode”) on some platforms. We
leverage Qt's dark theme support when possible, but have implemented our
own support and workarounds in some cases. You can ensure that your code
includes proper dark theme support by doing the following:

* You can use a macOS-style template icon by creating a monochrome SVG
document with “.template” appended to the name, e.g.
`resources/stock_icons/24x24/edit-find.template.svg`.
* Qt draws unvisited links *Qt::blue* no matter what. You can work
around this by using `ColorUtils::themeLinkBrush()` and
`ColorUtils::themeLinkStyle()`.
* You can catch dark and light mode changes by handling
`QEvent::ApplicationPaletteChange`.

==== Other Issues and Information

The main window has many QActions which are shared with child widgets. See
_ui/qt/proto_tree.cpp_ for an example of this.

To demonstrate the functionality of the plugin interface options, a
demonstration plugin exists (pluginifdemo). See <<ChapterPlugins>> and
_plugins/ui/pluginifdemo_.

https://www.kdab.com/development-resources/qt-tools/gammaray/[GammaRay] lets you inspect
the internals of a running Qt application similar to $$Spy++$$ on Windows.

[#ChUIGUIDocs]

=== Human Interface Reference Documents

Wireshark runs on a number of platforms, primarily Windows, macOS, and
Linux. It should conform to the Windows, macOS, GNOME, and KDE human
interface guidelines as much as possible. Unfortunately, creating a
feature that works well across these platforms can sometimes be a
juggling act since the human interface guidelines for each platform
often contradict one another. If you run into trouble you can ask the
_wireshark-dev_ mailing list as well as the User Experience Stack
Exchange listed below.

For further reference, see the following:

* Android Design:
https://developer.android.com/design/[]. Wireshark doesn't have
a mobile frontend (not yet, at least) but there is still useful
information here.

* GNOME Human Interface Guidelines:
https://developer.gnome.org/hig/[]

* KDE Human Interface Guidelines:
https://hig.kde.org[]

* macOS Human Interface Guidelines:
https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/macos/overview/themes/[]

* Design guidelines for the Windows desktop:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/uxguide/guidelines[]

* User Experience Stack Exchange:
https://ux.stackexchange.com/[]

// End of WSDG Chapter User Interface
